This project is going to be designed on the true foundations of immutable and decentralized peer to peer ledger which people can trust and use for exchange of energy (electricity) to run their homes. Here we find the true purpose of block chains which is the basis of trust for our assets (energy/electricity) and financial transactions. Smarts contracts have the capability to keep all the promises defined by mutual interests of the prosumers and the consumers. This will involve making up an internet of smart meters running smart contacts and block chain maintaining the mutual consensus.
Users can interact with smart dashboard DApp (Decentralized Application) where buyers meet sellers and vice versa. They can access the energy market/exchange on their mobile devices which are simultaneously connected with their smart meters via DApp and ultimately everything is running on the block chain. Users will be provided with the functionality where while with a touch of finger they can sell and buy energy assets on a trust based secure system. This whole process is going to be cyclic where you produce something and you list it on the market and you get back a reward.
Now here is the part which deserves the most detail. Let’s first construct a scenario of demand and supply which will define our true needs and our solution to fulfil the prosumer/consumer needs. For instance, suppose that there are two users, User A & User B. User A wants to send/sell some/some/all its watt/Hrs produced and User B has registered for purchase. A market DApp will help both User A & User B to list their energy assets on the exchange and buy them accordingly.
DApps are directly running on the block chain network which relates to the smart contract (with ERC-20 token functionality). User A will generate a send request on DApp and some watt/Hrs (As per User A request) will be listed on the exchange with a tag/public/wallet address and User B can see and verify the tag address and make a direct connection with the User A using the peer-to-peer connectivity of the Ethereum network.
A remote connection with one smart contract will be maintained during the assets/token transaction. Smart contract will be running on the Ethereum network which guarantees the decentralization without the involvement of a third party. Smart contract (which will be running on our own Grid-Hub with a full Ethereum Node with the capacity to verify the energy consumption or availability on its own computing meter) will verify the energy received by the User A smart meter and then it will verify the number of tokens sent by the User B wallet. Then after the transaction inputs are verified and checked according to the exchange rate calculations the transaction is performed.
Here a transaction is defined as the number of tokens sent over the network and the energy received received.
